[DOCS][ML UI][9.4 & Serverless] Doc artifactRepositoryProxyUrl to AI Assistant settings (#259418)
elastic/kibana: docs/reference/configuration-reference/ai-assistant-settings.md

---
navigation_title: "Knowledge base artifact settings for AI Assistants"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/ai-assistant-settings-kb.html
applies_to:
  deployment:

>     stack: ga

Author: ```suggestion
    ess: ga
    self: ga
```

---

# Knowledge base artifact settings for AI Assistants [ai-assistant-settings-kb]

The `xpack.productDocBase` settings configure how {{kib}} reaches the artifact repository used to install and update knowledge base artifacts (Elastic product documentation and Security Labs) for the AI assistants. Most deployments use the default base URL of the artifact repository and only need outbound access to Elastic’s CDN. Change these settings when you use a private mirror, local files, a proxy, or otherwise cannot rely on the default host.

`xpack.productDocBase.artifactRepositoryUrl`

> :   The base URL of the artifact repository that {{kib}} queries to list and download knowledge base artifacts for AI Assistants. Defaults to `https://kibana-knowledge-base-artifacts.elastic.co`, Elastic’s public artifact host. Leave the default when {{kib}} can reach that base URL over the internet. 

Author: ```suggestion
:   The base URL of the artifact repository from which {{kib}} lists and downloads knowledge base artifacts for AI Assistants. Defaults to `https://kibana-knowledge-base-artifacts.elastic.co`, Elastic’s public artifact host. Leave the default when {{kib}} can reach that base URL over the internet. 
```

    If the default host is unreachable or not permitted, set `xpack.productDocBase.artifactRepositoryUrl` to the HTTP or HTTPS base URL of a repository you operate that mirrors Elastic’s artifacts, for example, a private mirror or internal endpoint in a restricted or isolated network.

>     {applies_to}`self: ga 9.1+` To read artifacts from a directory on the filesystem of the host where {{kib}} runs, use a `file://` base URL (for example `file:///path/to/artifacts`). This is practical in self-managed environments where you control that host and can place the artifact files there. For {{ech}} and similar managed offerings, you typically cannot use the {{kib}} host’s filesystem as your artifact store. You must use an HTTP or HTTPS base URL for your private mirror, internal S3, or CDN that serves the same kind of listing and ZIP files as Elastic’s public artifact repo.

Reviewer: Is the "For ECH..." part relevant here? Everything is tagged as self-managed on this page.
